title=The UK
date=2010-08-15
tags=travel, photos, panorama
%%%%%%%%

Recently (July 9-23), I spent some time in the UK. I've been a bit
busy since then, and have not had time to write up my activities and
post them. Anyway, I've got some time now, so I'm posting now :-). The
primary reason I went to the UK was for the [FLoC '10][1] conference
(which was held in Edinburgh, Scotland), where I had a paper in
[CAV][2]. There is more info (including the paper) on my [school home
page][3].

We spent a few days wandering around London, which is quite the
tourist trap. I went and saw [Abbey Road][4] and walked across the
zebra crossing, we went and saw the Eye and Tower of London, we saw
the Sherlock Holmes museum, we went to Greenwich to sand on the prime
meridian, and Windsor Castle. The world cup final (Spain vs. Holland)
occurred, and we watched it in an English pub.  Naturally, there were
many other visits to pubs too... I had to get the full experience, you
know ;-).

After London, we went to Edinburgh for the conference. We didn't do
much sight seeing while the conference was in session, but we did eat
quite a lot of food, including [haggis][5] at the fancy conference
dinner where we got to here a bagpiper recite the [Address to a
Haggis][6] before our meal.

After the conference, we spent a day touring Glasgow, a day touring
Edinburgh, and a day touring the Scottish country side (including a
boat ride across Loch Ness, but no Nessie sighting). It was a fun
trip!

Aditya and I took lots and lots of [photos][7], so enjoy! I stitched
some panoramas together, and some of them turned out pretty good. Note
that there are no thumbnails because the images are *huge*, and the
thumbnail generation program crashes on them. You'll just have to
download them (but do it on a computer with lots of RAM, as the images
are ~25 MB each). Enjoy!

 [1]: http://floc-conference.org
 [2]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_Aided_Verification
 [3]: http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~tycho/
 [4]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abbey_Road_%28album%29
 [5]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Haggis
 [6]: http://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Address_to_a_Haggis
 [7]: http://images.tycho.ws/uk

