title=First public deployment of GTFO!
date=2010-06-15
tags=meta, gtfo
%%%%%%%

Ahoy! This is the first public deployment of the new web framework "GTFO". I'll
explain the name, design rationale, and other such things in a later post
(suffice it to say that this is the framework which stays the hell out of your
way ;-). For now, I believe I've got a reasonable stable and secure (i.e.
protected against sql/html injection) version of it.

Of course with a new framework comes a new content format. This means I had to
port all of my content from my old web page to this one. Although most of it
was pretty scriptable, I've scrapped a few old and unnecessary pages in favor
of the new format. In the process, I likely broke a few things that I'm unaware
of. Thus, if you experience any broken links (or get any unexpected errors)
/please/ send me an e-mail to let me know, so that I can fix them.

I'm also interested in folks' thoughts on the new layout. I'm experimenting
with a few different layouts, and any thoughts would be welcome.  I enjoy the
simplicity of this one, but I don't like the fact that it is a fixed width.
Anyway, I'll probably try a few more layouts before I settle on the right one,
so don't be surprised if you show up and everything looks totally different.
There should be more new content soon too (where soon is as soon as I can get
the energy up to write it ;-).

Lastly, I hope to have more features (e.g. photo galleries) integrated into the
framework. I'm developing it pretty actively right now, so it's likely that
these things will happen in the near future. Please don't hesitate to suggest
any features that you might enjoy using. I'm eventually going to release the
code under a BSD-style (or perhaps beerware?) license, although it's not clean
enough for me to do that right now. If you're interested in trying out the
code, though, shoot me an e-mail and I'll be happy to send it your way.
